README.md, before:


# S1Control
Remote-Control and Spectra analysis software for Bruker pXRF Instruments - works with the S1 TITAN, TRACER 5i/5g, CTX, and XMS.
Built as a service tool primarily, and as a programming excercise, so UAYOR.
Prepackaged portable executable version can be found in /dist/


## Screenshots - v0.6.6
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 164509](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/8d61b9a4-53ad-4202-aa02-671c0a41159a)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161136](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/9e82ed15-0aaf-49d3-9ff3-083b63285b70)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161223](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/462eadd2-7f44-4a52-9a4e-c05d55357159)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161548](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/0f6fde53-2090-48c1-97cd-e1ed9b0a214e)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161600](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/13e389e6-13ce-40f2-95d8-a106fa1ceac1)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161904](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/0808fb0b-251d-4779-ad70-3f757c536b7f)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161914](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/28830181-1b83-47af-a90c-042180ddfecc)

Commit message:

v0.7.3
- hopefully fixed ping issues cross-platform.
- adjusted font issues for cross-platform support. now need to manually install font file.
- altered bitmap icon code and added XBM file for linux/mac support

README.md, after:


# S1Control
Remote-Control and Spectra analysis software for Bruker pXRF Instruments - works with the S1 TITAN, TRACER 5i/5g, CTX, and XMS.
Built as a service tool primarily, and as a programming excercise, so UAYOR.
Prepackaged portable executable version can be found in /dist/
Install the JetBrainsMono-Regular.ttf font file found in the root directory to ensure UI text consistency.


## Screenshots - v0.6.6
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 164509](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/8d61b9a4-53ad-4202-aa02-671c0a41159a)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161136](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/9e82ed15-0aaf-49d3-9ff3-083b63285b70)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161223](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/462eadd2-7f44-4a52-9a4e-c05d55357159)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161548](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/0f6fde53-2090-48c1-97cd-e1ed9b0a214e)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161600](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/13e389e6-13ce-40f2-95d8-a106fa1ceac1)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161904](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/0808fb0b-251d-4779-ad70-3f757c536b7f)
![Screenshot 2023-08-07 161914](https://github.com/zebhall/S1Control/assets/81948605/28830181-1b83-47af-a90c-042180ddfecc)
